# Sales-Dashboard
Presenting my latest project crafted in Excel, featuring Interactive Charts, Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), and dynamic Filters, enhanced with Shapes designed in PowerPoint. Take a look!

## Project Objective 
Designing a Sales Dashboard for a bicycle company that features visually engaging charts and key performance indicators (KPIs), while analyzing sales based on various criteria.

## Requirements
- What were the total sales and profit? generated by the company in each month of the year?
- How does the sales distribution break down by country?
- How does the company's sales distribution vary across different segments?
- Which customers contributed the most to the company's total sales revenue?

## Process
- For Dashboard format generate shapes in power point, then copy all the shapes holding ctrl button and paste it in the excel.
- Calcuate total sales, Total profit and profit % and units sold using Pivot table.
- Insert text box in shape and then link respective KPIS.
- Find out top selling Product using index match function [INDEX(G3:H8,MATCH(MAX(H3:H8),H3:H8,0),2)]
- Get sales and profit monthwise using pivot tables, similarly get customer wise sales, sales % by country, monthwise profit, sales breakup % by Segment, product wise split of untis sold through pivot tables
- Sun burst chart for year wise and product wise sales.

## Project Insights
- Paseo_PROD_ID_002 has generated a highest sales contributing 29.35% of Total Revenue
- Average profit margin is 14.01%
- Japan has the highest revenue contribution at 16%
- Government segement contributes to 44% of Revenue, whereas Mid market and Channel partners contribute only 2% of revenue each.

## Conclusion
Carretera_PROD_ID_005 and Montana_PROD_ID_001 has lowest revenue margin of 11.64% & 12.96 % of revenue, these products should be carefully analysed, to imprvove the sales DMAIC of Sig Sigma should be implemented
